Condominium Market 1  
3rd Quarter of 2021 
 
 
Condominium Sales  
 
An increase was observed in the reported condominium sales transactions during 
Q3, 2021 compared to the corresponding period of the previous year and also 
compared to the previous quarter, as indicated by the Condominium Property 
Volume Index2. Even though, the most preferred condominium units were in the 
single condominium project category and those of below Rs.25 million, a gradual 
increase could be observed in sales of condominiums priced between Rs. 25 to 50 
million. By the end of Q3, 2021, majority of the units (96 per cent) in completed 
condominium projects have been sold. Meanwhile, in ongoing condominium 
projects, 58 per cent and 55 per cent of units have been reserved in single 
condominium projects and mixed development projects, respectively.  
 
 
Pre-sale deposits, bank loans and equity were the three key funding sources for 
condominium developments. It could be observed that the proportions of pre-sale 
deposits have increased during Q3, 2021 compared to the previous quarter. The 
proportions were calculated to get an overall understanding about the funding structure of 
condominium developments by averaging the percentages of funds received through 
different funding sources provided by each developer.  
Funding Structure of Condominium Developments 
Figure 6: Residence Status 
Figure 4: Sales Status of Condominium Projects  
Figure 5: Funding Structure 
Figure 2: Percentage of Sales 
Price Categories 
Figure 1: Condominium Property Volume Index2  
Figure 3: Percentages of Sales 
Condominium Categories  
1:This market analysis is based on the Condominium Market Survey conducted by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka for Q3, 2021 and 24 condominium property developers participated in 
this survey round.  
 
2: Condominium Property Volume Index is compiled to capture the variations in market activities by way of number of sales transactions reported for the reference period.  
 (Base period: Q3, 2017 = 100).    
          Figure 8: Source of Financing 
          Figure 7: Purpose of Purchasing 
 
                                                                        Condominium Buyers 
The majority of condominium buyers were Sri Lankan residents and only a few condominiums were purchased by dual citizens and 
foreigners. Majority of condominium purchases during Q3, 2021 were for immediate or future living. Meanwhile, the condominium 
purchases for investment and rent purposes were increased at this low interest rate environment. The prime source of funding used for 
condominium purchasing remained to be buyers’ own funds, while on average 28 per cent of buyers have obtained bank loans during 
Q3, 2021. 
