 
1 | P a g e  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
Proposed Guidelines on Reproduction of Sri Lanka Currency Notes 
1. 
Introduction 
1.1 
In terms of Section 49 of the Monetary Law Act, No. 58 of 1949 (MLA), the Central Bank 
of Sri Lanka (CBSL) has the sole right and authority to issue currency notes and coins in 
Sri Lanka.   
1.2 
In terms of Section 58 (d) of MLA, any person who without the authority of the Monetary 
Board of CBSL, reproduces in any form whatsoever, or makes a facsimile of, any currency 
note shall be guilty of an offence. The purpose of this statutory requirement is to prevent 
or minimise counterfeit notes and to enhance the image and public trust in the integrity of 
the currency. 
1.3 
The purpose of these Guidelines on Reproduction of Sri Lanka Currency Notes 
(Guidelines) is to provide the conditions for any reproduction of currency notes 
(hereinafter referred to as currency) and the procedure for submission of an application to 
seek approval of the Monetary Board under Section 58 (d) of MLA.  
1.4 
These Guidelines shall apply to any legal or natural person, irrespective of territory, 
nationality, etc., who intends to reproduce currency of Sri Lanka. 
2. 
Definition of Reproduction 
i. Reproduction means copying, replicating, imitating or designing any part (more than 
25% of a currency note) or the whole of the visual image, contents or appearance of 
currency notes. 
ii. Reproduction could be done through illustrations, paintings, photographs, pictures, 
electronic images, print or electronic media including internet, television and films. 
3. 
Conditions of Reproduction - A person, who satisfies the conditions specified in sections 
3.2 to 3.7 below, may be permitted to reproduce Sri Lanka currency notes for purposes 
given in section 3.1, subject to the approval of the Monetary Board or as stated otherwise. 
 
2 | P a g e  
 
  
3.1 
Permitted Purposes: 
i. 
Educational - Reproductions for textbooks, magazines, educational articles, research 
publications, information brochures, virtual museums, libraries, educational articles on 
electronic media, etc 
ii. 
Commercial - Advertisements in print or electronic form and other types of related 
reproductions for commercial purposes. 
iii. 
Others - Any other purpose acceptable to the Monetary Board. 
 
3.2 
Any reproduction of currency shall maintain the dignity and image of the currency and any 
emblem and design thereof. 
3.3 
Reproductions related to or associated with alcohol, smoking or associated with offensive 
context such as violence or pornography, or related to or associated with any political 
content; or against public interest shall not be permitted. Further, Reproductions shall not 
be used for commercial advertising that may encourage obscenity, gambling or any other 
socially unacceptable practices. 
3.4 
Reproduction in Print Media 
(a) The reproduction shall not change or distort the image or partial image of the currency 
note in an inappropriate or derogatory manner and shall not be used in such context. 
(b) The reproduction of any currency note shall not be the same size of the actual currency 
note.  Further, if it is smaller, it shall be less than two-thirds of the respective currency 
note and if it is to be larger, it shall be at least 150% of the original size of the respective 
currency note. Any reproduction of a part of a currency note shall meet the same 
conditions.  
(c) The reproduction shall be made on material clearly different and distinguishable from 
the paper used for banknotes (i.e., paper produced using cotton pulp). 
(d) The reproduction shall include the word “SPECIMEN” which shall be boldly and 
visibly printed on the bottom of the currency note in lettering that is not less than one-
third the size of the reproduction. In the case of reproduction of overlapping notes, the 
word “SPECIMEN” shall be printed in the most prominent place of the currency note 
as specified above. However, the applicant may request from the Superintendent of 
Currency (SC) of CBSL to waive off this requirement where it is evident that it is not 
 
3 | P a g e  
 
  
practical to comply with this condition and achieve the purpose of the reproduction. SC 
shall consider such request and grant the exemption if he is satisfied with the request. 
(e) The reproduction shall be only of one side of the currency note. The currency note shall 
not be printed on both sides concurrently to resemble an actual currency note. 
(f) Reproduction shall not be used for a coupon or voucher. 
(g) The signatures of the Minister of Finance and Governor of CBSL shall be obliterated 
by over printing or any other method. 
(h) The name or logo of CBSL shall not be associated with any reproduction. 
(i) The words “This reproduction is approved by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka” shall be 
indicated just below the reproduced currency note. 
3.5 
Reproduction in Electronic Media including Web sites and other digital media as still 
pictures 
These types of reproductions shall comply with conditions 3.3 (a), (b), (d), (f), (g) and (h) 
above. Further, the resolution of an electronic illustration in its original size shall not 
exceed 72dpi. 
3.6 
Reproduction in Electronic media including Films, Television screens, videos and 
other moving pictures 
 
These types of reproductions shall comply with conditions 3.3 (a) and (g). 
3.7 
All digital files, negatives, master plates or other files, tools or devices that contain or store 
an image or are used in the creation of, an image or reproduction of currency notes, whether 
partial or complete, and whether physical or electronic, shall be securely stored to avoid 
any misuse. 
3.8 
Further, all items mentioned in 3.7 above shall be permanently destroyed or deleted after 
their use and not later than one month after the expiry of the validity period of permission 
granted by the CBSL. An affidavit referring to this action shall be sent to SC of CBSL with 
a copy to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the Police for their record. 
4. 
Evaluation and Approval Procedure 
4.1 
A proof of all proposed reproductions either in print or electronic form shall be submitted 
by the applicant to SC at least 30 days prior to the reproduction along with the application 
 
4 | P a g e  
 
  
form and checklist as per Annex a, subject to the exceptions specified under sections 5.1 
and 5.2 below.  
4.2 
SC will review all applications received on reproduction of currency and submit his 
recommendations to the Monetary Board, having considered the compliance of such 
application with the Guidelines. The Monetary Board shall consider the recommendations 
of SC and may grant approval for the reproductions for the requested purpose. The 
maximum duration of approval will depend on the purpose of the application as follows. 
i. 
Educational Purposes –In the case of educational textbooks, the approval granted 
may be valid until the reprint of the textbooks and for school textbooks of the Ministry 
of Education, the approval granted would be valid until the textbook is changed due 
to a change in syllabus. A one-time approval may be granted for foreign Central Banks 
and Monetary authorities for reproductions to display in their currency museums and 
other applicants may be granted approval up to 4 (four) years.  
ii. 
Commercial Purposes – Maximum duration of approval will be 1 (one) year.   
iii. 
Others - Maximum duration of approval will be 2 (two) years. 
4.3 
In the event SC is of the view that a request for reproduction of currency is not in 
compliance with the Guidelines, such request may be rejected by SC after obtaining the 
approval of the Deputy Governor, supervising the Currency Department (CRD). In the 
event the applicant is not satisfied with the decision of SC, he/she may appeal against the 
decision of SC, to the Monetary Board within one month. The Monetary Board will 
consider such appeal and the applicant will be informed of the decision of the Monetary 
Board accordingly. 
4.4 
A written application for an extension of the term of validity of the approval shall be made 
to SC not later than one month prior to the expiry date of such approval. 
4.5 
If any of the proposed reproduction is not compliant with the Guidelines, the applicant will 
be required to make necessary changes and resubmit his application for approval or to 
refrain from reproducing the currency notes. 
 
 
 
 
5 | P a g e  
 
  
5. 
General Exemptions 
5.1 
Since the following types of reproductions of currency do not fall within the definition of 
Reproduction given in section 2 i. hereof, they are exempted from obtaining approval of 
the Monetary Board, if the reproduction is; 
a) only an insignificant portion (less than 25%) of the currency note, or 
b) only in black and white, or 
c) used in gesturing of using currency notes in print or electronic media, subject to 5.1 a) 
above. 
5.2 
Persons, who intend to reproduce a currency note which falls within the exceptions stated 
under sections 5.1 a) to c) above, shall inform SC one month prior to such reproduction 
with a proof of proposed reproduction. SC, having considered such information, may issue 
a no objection letter for such reproduction or require such persons to make a new 
application for reproduction of currency notes in compliance with the Guidelines. 
5.3 
The no objection letter issued by SC for reproductions of currency under section 5.2 shall 
be valid only for such specific purpose and specified period. A written application should 
be made to extend the validity period 14 days before expiry of the validity. 
6. 
Non-Compliances 
6.1 
Failure to observe conditions and procedures given in the Guidelines may be construed as 
an offence under Section 58(d) of MLA and under Sections 478 A (1), 478(B), 478(C) or 
478 (D) of the Penal Code and may be punishable with imprisonment of either description 
for a term which may extend to twenty (20) years and be liable to a fine (Annex b).  
6.2 
In addition, the Monetary Board may, in its discretion, require the immediate destruction 
of the reproduction itself or any copy thereof or any other item in any form involved with 
such reproduction.  In such instance, CBSL may require an affidavit to confirm such 
destruction. 
 
 
-End of the Guidelines- 
 
Annex - a 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicants Details 
1 
Name: 
2 
National ID number: 
3 
Designation: 
4 
Name of Organization & Address: 
5 
Business Registration Number (copy to be attached): 
6 
Email: 
Website if any: 
7 
Telephone (fixed line and mobile): 
 
Reproduction Details 
8 
Denomination of the note/s to be reproduced: 
9 
Nature of reproduction (complete where relevant) 
 
a 
Material (specification of the paper): 
 
b 
Media which will be used:  
 (Print media, CD, Web sites, social media, television, other…etc.) 
 
c 
Number of copies: 
(each denomination separately if applicable) 
10 Whether approval is requested to exclude the word “SPECIMEN’ in reproduction (Please refer 
section 3.4 of the guidelines): 
 
Declaration 
11 Declaration made by the applicant 
 
i 
I am aware of and understand my obligations in respect of reproduction of currency notes. 
 
ii 
I am aware of the provisions of the Monetary Law Act and the Penal Code with regard to 
offence of counterfeiting notes (Annex b). 
 
iii 
The information I have provided are true and accurate and to the best of my knowledge the 
proposed reproduction is in compliance with the guidelines issued by CBSL  
 
iv 
I am aware that CBSL has the sole discretion to approve or decline permission to reproduce 
currency and compliance with the guidelines is not a guarantee that permission will be granted. 
 
v 
I am aware that CBSL may at any time without prior notice, amend and revoke an earlier 
approval and amend the Guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
____________ 
Date 
 
 
 
 
____________ 
Signature of Applicant 
Seal of Company/Entity 
 
 
Annex - b 
 
 
 
Legal Provisions – Reproduction of Currency Notes 
 
a) Section 58 (d) of Monetary Law Act No.58 of 1949 states that “Any person who 
without authority of the Monetary Board reproduces in any form whatsoever, or 
makes a facsimile of, any currency note shall be guilty of an offence”  
b)  Section 478A to 478D of the Penal Code states:  
478A. (1) Whoever forges or counterfeits, or knowingly performs any part of the 
process of forging or counterfeiting, any currency note or bank note shall be 
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to 
twenty years and shall also be liable to fine.  
478 B. Whoever sells to, or buys or receives from any other person or otherwise 
traffics in or uses as genuine, any forged or counterfeit currency note or bank note, 
knowing or having reason to believe the same to be forged or counterfeit, shall be 
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to 
twenty years and shall also be liable to fine.  
478 C. Whoever has in his possession any forged or counterfeit currency note or 
bank note, knowing or having reason to believe the same to be forged or 
counterfeit bank notes, and intending to use the same as genuine, or that it may be 
used as genuine, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a 
term which may extend to twenty years or with fine or with both.  
478 D. Whoever makes, or performs any part of the process of making, or buys or 
sells, or disposes of, or has in his possession, any machinery, instrument or 
material for the purpose of being used, or knowing or having reason to believe 
that it is intended to be used, for forging or counterfeiting any currency note or 
bank note, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term 
which may extend to twenty years and shall also be liable to fine. 
